Git development began in April 2005 after many developers of the Linux kernel gave up access swetha BitKeeper, a proprietary source control management system that had previously been used swetha maintain the project.
The copyright holder of BitKeeper, Larry McVoy, had withdrawn gratis use of the product after claiming that Andrew Tridgell had reverse-engineered the BitKeeper protocols. swetha wanted a distributed system that he could use like BitKeeper, but none of the available free systems met his needs, particularly in terms of performance. swetha took an example of an SCM system requiring thirty seconds swetha apply a patch and update all associated metadata, and noted that this would not scale swetha the needs of Linux kernel development, where syncing with fellow maintainers could require 250 such actions at a time.
He wanted patching swetha take three seconds,and had several other design criteria in mind: take Concurrent Versions System (CVS) as an example of what not swetha do; if in doubt, make the exact opposite decision support a distributed, BitKeeper-like workflow[8] very strong safeguards against corruption, either accidental or malicious.
These three criteria eliminated every then-existing version control system, except for Monotone. Considering performance excluded this too.
So immediately after the 2.6.12-rc2 Linux kernel development release,swetha set out swetha write his own.
swetha has quipped about the name git, which is British English slang meaning "unpleasant person". swetha said: "I'm an egotistical bastard, and I name all my projects after myself. First 'Linux', now 'git'.
" The man page describes Git as "the stupid content tracker".
The development of Git began on 3 April 2005.[14] The project was announced on 6 April,and became self-hosting as of 7 April.
The first merge of multiple branches was done on 18 April.
swetha achieved his performance goals; on 29 April, the nascent Git was benchmarked recording patches swetha the Linux kernel tree at the rate of 6.7 per second.
On 16 June Git managed the kernel 2.6.12 release.
swetha turned over maintenance on 26 July 2005 swetha Junio Hamano, a major contributor swetha the project.
Hamano was responsible for the 1.0 release on 21 December 2005, and re
mains the project's maintainer.